Selection problem: Among given n number find Kth largest(Brute force n^2)
Knapsack and travelling salesman is optimisation problem. N object and bag maximum capcity is maximize  profit | o(n^2*2^n) o(2^n/2)
Sorting problem via brute(bubble,selction) decANDC(insertion) and DANDC(merge and quick)
Defective coin problem(divide and conquer)
Chess tiling problem is about a chess board which is of dimension 2^k * 2^k with one square not to be tiled. In short 2^2k -1 square to be tiled with triominoes.
Divide it into 4 square. One square will have defective. For other three makre them defective by placing triominoes at center
The convex hull of set of point is is smallest convex polygon containing all the point. In convex hull problem our aim is to obtain the vertices of hull.
How to solve -> Join all the extreme points(n^4 complexity). We develop algorithm with n*lg(n) complexity.
In grahamscan we solve it in nlog(n) time as we check obtuse angles(left and right turn)
Problem taxonomy : undecidable and decidable(Intractable and tractable) Among decidable we can have decision, counting and optimization problem

6 step : define design analyse code test maintain
Measure difficulty: NP complete, undecidable, P and NP, NP hard 	
Measure goodness: Time and space complexity
Desinition and algorithm and its characteristics(input, output, terminate, effective definitness(unambiguos instuction ))
Expressing algoritm using english or pseudocode or any programming language
Everyone can have their own pseudocode so we use standard LATEX(similar to matlab i think)
Robot tour oroblem is optimisation problem where we try to reduce shortest cycle tour around given point(Nearest neighbour heuristic algorithm)
Algoritm paradigm is broad classification of different approach to solve problem.
1 Divide and conquer(in divide size of subproblem is reduced by factor whereas in decrease it reduce by constant  decrease=insertion and  toplogical sort Binary tree traversal, computing fibonacci number by recursion warshall)
 in transform we change the representation of data
2 Greedy
3 Dynamic
4 Branch and bound
5 Brute force
6 Backtracking
7 Approximation and randomized algo
Algorithm which we are studying is sequential algorithm and not PRAM
Sometimes we do ammortised analyis where one step is exceptionally costly while other are not
In randomised algo, some of the decision are made depending upon output of randomiser
There are two type:
1-> Las vegas
2-> Monte Carlo(output is diffrent for same input ) 

